# wind-sensor


## Description
The objective is to build a wind sensor that is small, low-cost, reliable, and durable. It is also
preferable if the wind sensor has no moving parts, to increase its durability. This consists of
designing the wind sensor board and the housing, and to conduct in-house testing before
deploying it outdoors. Once a wind sensor is built that is proven to be accurate in the in-house
testing, it can be integrated with the sensor modules that are currently deployed and collecting
weather data (solar irradiance, air pressure, humidity, temperature, etc).


## Full Abstract

via Daisy:

The costs of air-conditioning and cooling at UH Manoa are high. The electricity use for
cooling (air conditioning plants) uses 46% of the energy on campus [3]. This means the
electricity used for cooling is almost half the energy used on campus. Having natural ventilation
for cooling is a possible solution to reduce the costs of electricity from air conditioning. The
Smart Campus Energy Lab (SCEL) group at the University of Hawaii at Manoa (UHM) has
being looking into how to make renewable energy more widely available by gathering
environmental data information to better predict the amount of energy generated by solar
resources. The first step of researching is modeling the UHM campus as a microgrid that
connects to the main grid and also powered by solar panels around campus. Weather data such as
temperature, humidity, solar irradiance, and pressure are being collected from roof top sensor
boxes in real time are used to estimate the future energy generation of solar panels. A wind
sensor is being designed to be added to these roof top sensor boxes to collect wind data, so
natural ventilation can be considered for new buildings, or to retrofit existing buildings. 
